INFORM
ISSUE 16
/
May 2014
A Ministry of Manpower (MOM) publication specially for foreign domestic workers in Singapore
A caring FDW,
A happy
household
A Heartwarming Chat with
Kiryani, Winner of the FDW
of the Year (2013)
Kiryani, how do you feel about winning
Mrs Chuan: Now she
Kiryani, a 30 year old FDW from Indonesia was celebrated by her friends and
the award?
even knows Mandarin!
fellow FDWs for winning the FDW of the Year Award 2013 at the 4th FDW
Kiryani: I am very happy and feel proud of
She learnt it in China
myself. This job is very challenging, and it feels
when we sent Chuan
Day held on 1 December 2013. Kiryani's dedication and care towards her
good when we get such awards. It shows that
Chen for therapy. She
employer's daughter Chuan Chen, a young lady with cerebral palsy,
people respect us. I did not expect to win! Ma'am
spoke Mandarin at the
showed me the winners from last year and they
markets there too.
moved the judges. In fact, when Kiryani was announced as the winner,
were really good.
there was someone who was more excited than she was. It was
What is your favourite part
Mrs Chuan: Kiryani was still in shock when they
of your job?
Mrs Chuan, Kiryani's employer. Kiryani and Mrs Chuan
announced her name! When I went to hug her,
Kiryani: Cooking! I always look at
shared their heartwarming thoughts with us
she was still confused.
recipes in the newspaper and try cooking
them for the family.
in an exclusive interview.
Did you face any difficulties when you
Mrs Chuan: She makes Chuan Chen her favourite
started work here?
food after school, like Korean noodles. When the
Kiryani: At first it was difficult to care for Chuan
judges came down for their assessment, they were
Chen. I always did my best, but still we did not
very impressed with her cooking! She has even
see any improvement. But it did not stop me from
learnt Hainanese dishes, which my husband likes.
trying. Another challenge I faced was speaking
Do you have any advice for fellow FDWs?
English. On my first day when Ma'am asked me
Have you learnt any new skills?
Kiryani: Be patient, hardworking and understanding
anything, I was too scared to reply. But I learnt
Kiryani: Mainly therapy skills. Actually, I want to
towards your employer. Sometimes you may not
more by talking to Ma'am and her family and now
learn computer skills. I heard you can learn more
like doing certain tasks, but at the end of the day,
my English has improved.
at FAST. Maybe some Javanese dance too!
it is our job so we should do our best.
TIPS
HAVE A POSITIVE
PERFORM your daily duties diligently.
SHOW willingness to learn.
WORK ATTITUDE
ASK your employer to explain any instructions you do not understand.
AND ENJOY A GOOD
LISTEN carefully and carry out your employer's instructions to the best of your ability.
RELATIONSHIP WITH
LEARN new skills.
YOUR EMPLOYER.
Try your best to ADAPT to your new environment.
1
Dealing With Stress
Are you
feeling
Everyone experiences stress at times. For foreign domestic workers who have never
lived or worked in a city before, you may suffer from homesickness being away from
your loved ones. Being new, you will need time to learn before you can do your work
stressed?
well. But this is normal, and you will feel better when you get used to your work.
If you have a problem, sharing it with others who have had similar experiences may
help you find a solution and will make you less stressed or alone. Talk to your friends
or your family.
Adopting healthy habits can protect you from the harmful effects of stress. Follow
these tips to keep stress under control.
The following list highlights some of the
1
signs and symptoms of stress which you
Look After Your Health
Engage in activities you enjoy
should look out for.
A healthy body is a natural defence
Talk to your employer, family
against stress. Eating and resting well
or friends
Physical
Cognitive
ensures better health and a sense of
Manage your time well
Headaches
Forgetfulness
well-being. Regular exercise helps to
Start a diary or write letters to
Fatigue
Poor concentration
build physical and mental strength
INFORM to express your feelings
Stomach upsets
Mental block
against stress.
Dizziness
2
Use Stress-Coping Strategies
3
Have Goals, Dreams & Passion
Emotional
Behavioural:
It is important to adopt good and
Anxious/Worry
Sleep problems
Goals provide us with a sense of direction
Irritable
effective habits to manage stress.
Crying
and perspective. With a clear focus and
Some examples of effective coping
Depressed/Moody
Poor appetite
passion, you will feel a greater sense of
Restless
Withdrawal
strategies are:
control and purpose in life.
REMEMBER:
You must remain positive even when you face issues at your employer's home. Do not do anything to harm yourself or others.
If you need someone to talk to, there are various channels of help available for you: MOM FDW Helpline (1800-339-5505),
FAST's 24-hour FDW Helpline (1800-339-4357) or SOS (1800-221-4444).
(Advisory by the Singapore Police Force)
Phone $CAM$
Many foreign work pass holders have become victims of phone scams. We would like
to take this opportunity to share with you how you can avoid being a victim too.
There are many types of phone scams, many of which involve scammers who try
to trick victims into sending money to designated local or overseas bank accounts.
These scammers may try to convince you into believing that they are someone you
know or trust.
Examples of phone scams:
Lottery Scam - Scammers inform victims that they have
won a prize in a lottery or lucky draw. Scammers will
To avoid being
then ask victims to make payment(s) for administrative
purposes or taxation before they can claim their'prizes'
the next phone scam
victim, you should:
Impersonation Scam - Scammers will impersonate
Singapore Government officials (e.g. police officers,
officers from the Immigration and Checkpoint Authority
Always be wary of phone calls from
(ICA), court officials, etc) and accuse victims of being
strangers;
involved in various kinds of criminal offences. The
Do not transfer any money via
scammer will then ask the victim for money in order to
be spared from criminal proceedings.
remittance agencies, banks or any
other means to anyone you do not
know; and
Remember to share these crime prevention measures with your
Call the Police immediately at '999'
employers so that they can avoid becoming victims of such scams too.
to report the case.
2
(ARTICLE CONTRIBUTED BY THE SINGAPORE BOTANIC GARDENS)
Sharing Our
The Singapore
Botanic Gardens, with its lush
green lawns, is the choice for many
locals and tourists, as well as foreign domestic
Green Spaces
workers who wish to enjoy the outdoors on
their rest days. With SO many people visiting
the Gardens, it is important we all do our part
to make the Gardens a wonderful experience
for everyone by following a
few simple rules.
The Gardens' power points are only for
Do not smoke. Help keep the Gardens smoke-free.
official use; Do not use it to charge your
personal electronic devices.
The open lawns at the Gardens are perfect for
a picnic! Avoid picnicking in office buildings
Washrooms meant for visitors in wheelchairs
and under shelters or sheltered passageways.
TITE
should not be misused.
Shelters and passageways are for all visitors, so
RESTROOM
be considerate and share them with everyone.
Do not pitch any tents in the Gardens.
Help protect the Gardens' plants so that these
Camping is permitted only at designated
treasures can continue to thrive and grow for all
camping areas in East Coast Park, Pasir Ris
visitors to enjoy.
Park and West Coast Park. Do apply for a
Camping Permit at any AXS stations.
Help maintain peacefulness of the Gardens by not
playing loud music that might disturb other visitors.
Help keep all public areas clean, including
sheltered areas. Place food waste in plastic
bags and dispose of them in the litter bins
Be socially responsible if you drink. It is important to
provided. Keep our washrooms clean and dry
behave appropriately as the Gardens is open to the public.
for the next visitor.
For information on Singapore Botanic Gardens, visit www.sbg.org.sg and www.facebook.com/SingaporeBotanicGardens
28th SEA Games Singapore 2015:
Courses
Celebrate the Extraordinary
COURSE FEES
COURSE VENUE
(Article contributed by the Singapore Sports Council)
$50 nett per FDW inclusive
10 Raeburn Park Blk #02-33
of 1 lunch and 2 tea breaks
Singapore 088702
Singapore is honoured
(All participants will receive a Certificate
to be hosting the 28th
COURSE TIMING
of Attendance upon successful
SEA Games in 2015.
9am to 6pm
completion of the training)
Records will be broken
and sporting history
will be made in this 12
BABY CARE BASICS TRAINING
day sports event which
What you will learn
will take place from 5 to
Carry Techniques Sleeping positions
16 June 2015. Will Sinag
Coping with crying
Pilipinas clinch the
Feeding, Bathing, Diapering and Burping
men's basketball gold medal again? Or will Christopher Ulboc Jr.
Personal Hygiene
Dressing and undressing
successfully defend his gold medal in the 3,000m steeplechase
event he won at the Myanmar Games?
ELDERLY CARE TRAINING
The possibilities are endless. But you can be sure that Southeast
What you will learn
Asia's sporting heroes will do their very best.
Risk Factors of falls and preventive measures
Nutrition Elderly Hygiene Transferring
The Games will be held at the new National Stadium @ Sports
Aspects of caregiving in Activities of Daily Living
Hub, and it will be a good opportunity for you and your
Basic First Aid
employer to be part of the action!
DOMESTIC SAFETY TRAINING
Do look out for many of the exciting SEA Games
What you will learn
28th
SEA
actions and programmes coming your way!
Working safely in domestic kitchens
GAMES
Check out the SEA Games official Facebook page:
Enhance safety awareness in domestic kitchens
www.facebook.com/seagames2015.
Identify potential hazards in domestic kitchens
3
The INFORM Team would like to extend our huge thanks to all
those who sent us such inspiring letters! We are always happy
to hear from you. We have selected 14 contributors who have
SPEAK UP!
each won a DataTalk $22 Top-up Card sponsored by SingTel
Prepaid. Let us take a look at what some of them had to say.
I have been working in Singapore for 5 years and had attended some
I wish to thank INFORM. I had worked in other countries and am grateful
courses after reading them in INFORM. I am also a volunteer in a nursing
to note that only Singapore celebrates and recognises the contributions
home. I want to say thank you to my employer, Mr Liow, and his mother
of the FDWs, and even lets us win some prizes!
for allowing me to achieve something in my life.
Soosai Puvana (Sri Lanka)
- Jonalyn B Latigay (Philippines)
INFORM Team - Hi Jonalyn, we are happy that you found the learning
INFORM Team - Hi Soosai, thank you for your compliments!
and volunteering meaningful.
When I read INFORM for the first time, my feeling of loneliness disappeared.
This is my first time in Singapore. I want to express my appreciation to
The advice and encouragement from the articles are very useful for me.
my employer, Kak Faridah, and her family because they are always by my
| would also like to offer an advice to all FDWs:
side when I need help. To Ma'am, thank you very much for your concern,
Treasure and value your life and your work; only then can you say that
trust and respect which you have given to me!
you value yourself. - Marrinar Hkaw Wang (Myanmar)
Helima Farida (Indonesia)
INFORM Team - Thank you Marrinar for your advice to inspire fellow
INFORM Team - Hi Farida, we are glad that you enjoy a good relationship
FDWs!
with your employer.
We would like to welcome you to write to us, share your experiences and the topics/events you want to see featured
in future issues of INFORM. Send your letters to:
Media, Promotions & Education Branch, Foreign Manpower Management Division, Ministry of Manpower Services
Centre, 1500 Bendemeer Road #02-01, Singapore 339946.
The INFORM Team will select the 10 best contributors to win an exclusive gift pack!
Dedicated Clubhouse for
MINDA CALAGUIAN-CRUZ
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary Republic of the
Foreign Domestic Workers
Philippines
A new FDW Befrienders Clubhouse has been launched. The Clubhouse,
Philippine Ambassador to Singapore, Her Excellency
E Minda Calaguian-Cruz, relinquished her post on
set up by the Foreign Domestic Worker Association for Social Support
10 April 2014. Hear what she had to say to FDWs from
and Training (FAST), is located at No. 10 Raeburn Park. It will be open
the Philippines!
daily with special activities and events conducted every Sunday.
Thanks to Singapore for hosting Filipinos
The Clubhouse will host befrienders gatherings where you can socialise
and allowing them to contribute their skills
with other FDWs and enjoy teambuilding activities. Other activities and
to Singapore's productivity, and at the
facilities you can enjoy at the Clubhouse include seminars, fitness and
same time enriching further the cultural
aerobic classes, movie screenings, weekly karaoke sessions, access to
diversity in the local scene.
the computer lab, a library corner and many more. Members can also
The work places, indeed, provide the
participate in monthly heritage and educational tours around Singapore.
platform for skills sharing while fostering
Membership costs just S$4 a year. For enquiries, you can visit the FAST
people-to-people links that create a sense
"
website at www.fast.org.sg or its Facebook page at www.facebook.com/
of team and community.
fast.org.sg, or contact FAST at 6509 1535 during office hours.
USEFUL
OTHER HELPLINES
EMBASSIES AND HIGH COMMISSIONS
KEEP THE NUMBERS BELOW
FOR HELP OR EMERGENCIES
ACMI
ACMI Hotline
Samaritans of
CONTACTS
To be family migrants
SOS
Bangladesh
6255 0075
6280 5424
Singapore (SOS)
1800 221 4444 (24 hours)
India
6737 6777
MOM Foreign Domestic
MINISTRY OF
MANPOWER
Worker (FDW) Helpline
HOME
Humanitarian
Association of
1800 339 5505
Organisation
Employment Agencies
Indonesia
6737 7422 /
for Migration
(Singapore)
SINGAPORE
This hotline is for FDWs seeking assistance and advice on
Economics
6836 2618
Myanmar
6735 1672
well-being, salary and other employment-related matters
(HOME) Hotline
6341 5525/
Philippines
6737 3977
1800 797 7977
OTHER EMERGENCIES
Sri Lanka
Foreign Domestic Worker Association for Social
6254 4595
Ambulance/Fire 995
Police
999
Support and Training (FAST) Toll-Free Hotline
1800 339 4357 (24 hours)
Thailand
6737 8421 0105
4